# Personal Training 20230724

## Goal Ideas

This is just a rough scratchpad.

- Compound weightlifting stuff, organize this better
  - squats, deadlifts, i have like 8 others I am interested in, and whatever else too
- Lose 8 lbs, be at 8% body fat.  Current target wt. 190.3 lbs.
  - straightforwards: just 8 weeks of my current cardio/lifting without any cheeseburgers or pizza. I don't need to calorie count based on the low importance of the 8 week timeline.
- Develop a good routine: Dynamic Warmups before exercise, static stretching after exercise
- Improve balance in each leg and between legs, half ball stuff, what else?
- Mobility
  - improve range of motion in shoulders and arms
  - Determine needs for hip mobility


## general tips

- really feel and hold the squeeze at the top
- use a slow negative/eccentric too, 3 seconds up, pause and flex the muscle 2 seconds, 3 seconds down


## Questions:
- How often should I foam roll? I don't want to do it like... 6 hours a week...
  - my guess: more is better, watch TV and foam roll like every other day
- what is the squat case in which I can somehow put strain or sliding on the knees? Maybe it isn't one of my problems?
- how can i improve mobility to get a bit deeper into my squat?
-  what works the anterior deltoids on the two arm seated cable pull out of A I Y T? Do I have anything in my workouts that works the anterior deltoids?
- how does holding the squeeze go for say a curl, should i pause halfway down in the eccentric?
  - how do i pause and flex "at the top" (or wherever) in other exercises than a pushup?


## Body Composition Machine

Nothing notable, 11.1% body fat.

I think recommended is 10%-20% and minimum acceptable is about 6%.

Based on this I don't need to lose any weight and can really only lose `21.9 - (198.3*.06) == 10.0 lbs`

BUT - all body fat loss is good for my cholesterol, so maybe I will aim for a 7-8% body fat.

In this case, lose `21.9 - (198.3*.07) == 8 lbs.` **Target weight: 190.3 lbs**


## Squats

### Squat Form

- knees should be above toes, going straight down
- squat should be wide, toes might be slightly out, it's based on body type
- low position is femurs parallel to the ground
- go straight down, don't tip forwards
  - squat facing and up against the mirror to prevent leaning forwards
    - i didn't do this, but may in the future
- i didn't tip back when i was holding a ~20 lbs kettlebell upside down and squatting with that
  - if i just do a bunch of squats, will i stop tipping back as I get more stability?
- when going up activate the glutes A LOT
- breathing: inhale before going down, part of the way up, start your exhale, queston: is this related to the glute activation time? i will get a feel for it...

## Squat Stability

### Two leg squat stability

- stand on the half ball and squat, hold something for support
  - ensure your feet are even forward and back
  - ball is more advanced, you can also use the big black cube things

### Single Leg squat Stability

- stability exercise: stand on the half ball with one foot in the dead center
  - move your other foot in front, then to the side, then back
    - this is not exaggerated, just a few inches on each one, rotate between front, parallel, back, parallel, front, etc.
    - maybe do this 10 times
- stability is a constant importance, even a 350 lbs squat was able to get to 420 by doing like 100 squats on a half ball
- muscle imbalance shows up as the fast rocking back and forth on the half ball


## Pushup Stability

- pushups on the half ball, don't grip the outsides, keep your hands flat
- we did this for 5 minutes, I had good pushup stability
  - this was still a great exercise and I should repeat it
- 3 seconds down, 3 seconds up, 2 second flex at the top
  - flex your muscles manually at the top for 2 seconds
  - this manual activation will improve the burn
  - even stop halfway down and hold it
- "time in position" or something? basically you hold it, that will give a good workout
- more strengthening in the negative of the weightlifting
- also pause/hold movement in tension for 2 seconds, e.g. halfway down


## Two arm seated cable pull

Goal: Work the A and I positions into my back and core day, maybe move core day to leg day?

- Shoulder Mobility, 4 positions: A, I, Y, T
  - I do a 30 deg. bench dumbbell reverse fly in the T and Y positions
  - I felt very weak in the A position, both arms straight pulling down alongside my hips
  - I used the minimum weight
    - didn't really feel the activation much below my shoulderblades
    - need to work this a lot to get these muscles going
  - I felt weaker in the I position, both arms overhead, need to work on this too


## Broom Handle

I should get a broom handle for my house, as this doesn't need to be done in the gym and probably needs done daily.

- Shoulder mobility
  - find the minimum width where you can very smoothly clear the broom handle from in front of your hips to behind your hips
    - the whole exercise should be smooth, going from front to back, then back to front
    - keep the bar as far away from your body as you can throughout
    - repeat it 15 times or something
  - This is very wide for me, and I should be able to reduce the distance between my hands over time by doing this daily


## Planks

- Hold 12" ball between the elbow and the knee, then hold the opposite leg and arm up and out, at kind of a 45 degree angle

- Elbow plank
  - should be called "forearm plank" keep the weight distributed on my forearms, avoid lots on the elbows.
  - keep the shoulders over the forearms
  - keep a strong stance throughout, try not to sag
  - 4 x 90 second plank is a good benchmark, get it in
  - i don't think elbow should be harder than hand?



## Foam rolling

Tools: foam roller (hard), lacrosse ball

Rolling is a misnomer, it should be foam pressing or something. You only roll to find the spot, then you hold it there.

- You don't need to wait until you are tight to do this, do it early and do it often.
- Keep the pressure until you feel the release.
- positions:
  - between the hip flare bone and the hip bone there are muscles that fan out, whatever those are
    - anterior to the fan out is the hip flexor
    - posterior to the fan out is something that needs it too
  - similar to pidgeon to get the muscle outside of the shin - i definitely feel this
  - calves etc
  - classic leg foam rolling, i have done this a hundred times, hit the IT band, anywhere you can feel it, do it unti you get the release


## Dynamic warmups

Dynamic warmup before exercise, static stretching after exercise/cardio (end of workout)

- For tomorrow: Alternatingly 25x - stand on one foot and sweep my arms up, sort of like a partial squat in the hips and knee. Switch feet each time.
