Putting together the power clean. I noticed that I am spending time between the clean and the squat to review if I shelf properly. Obviously that's a problem as interesting that in speaking, you want to have space between your thought and your words, but in lifting you do not want to be thinking halfway through your motion. Has to be fluid.

I put 25 pounds on each side of the barbell for power clean. I did get a lot faster, when I felt like almost a twist as I was coming up that seems like a risk factor for injury. It's really important to maintain symmetrical pull. 

Joey is having me do a clean and squat which is like a power clean with a squat front squat on the back half of motion.

Benchpress. I have been doing 135 to protect my medial deltoid. Which seems injured from baby caring. What we found is that adjust an angel angle of the wrist to 45° or 90° off the typical barbell the tension on the medial deltoid . So, I was able to do 10 reps at 1:35 with the special barbell which has a 90° angle from a typical barbell so thumb to pinky alignment is basically to toe.

Using this special barbell, I was able to do one wrap at 185 and I think three or five reps at 165

I would like to do two bites for side in 2024. This is really ambitious since I can only do one rep at 185 today. I would be adding 40 pounds to my regular lift.

So, this could become a 2024 fitness goal.

- 215 x 5 bench press
- 135 power clean. Stretch: 175 power clean
- front squat to equal back squat of 135 or 175
- maintain squat and deadlift